Hey, friend, welcome back.
Previously, on an episode of Bootstrapped, a WordPress 2.0, we coded the HTML up kind of the scaffolding
html for the blog index page of the articles.
And at the end of the episode, we realized that looking at a white wall of messy, really basic HTML
with minimal styling wasn't that exciting.
And we decided to switch gears and move to CC a little prematurely so that we can work with our HTML
while looking at something nice in tandem.
So that's how we're going to do.
We're actually going to start styling some stuff up.
Make this look a little better.
Head over to that favorite code editor of yours.
Hopefully, you've got your favorite drink in hand.
Appropriate for the time of the day and open up your style, the CSV file we got that lets me make this
little easier to see style.
Let's see SS real basic, real easy, real simple and at the top here you could see we're already linked
up.
Make sure you're linked up real style sheet aircraft style.
That's SS and we're gonna head into that style sheet.
We're going to start doing some typography first to make it look nice.
Make the type look good.
Start with that body and we're going to go font family.
And remember how we added the entire font family?
We'll do that right now.
Font size is going to be 18 pixels.
Line height is going to be 28 pixels.
Real simple, you could use MS or REM's if you want.
I'm just going, I'm just going like this kind of hard coded.
Now one thing you could do is you could this is up to you.
You could do it anywhere you want.
You can say at one point five am or just one point five, which is going to be one point five of the
font size one point five rim is going to be the route.
And so if you said body route was like 18 pixels, when you use RIM, it's always going to go off of
the route of the style of the the the tree, whatever it's called.
I forget it right now, but it's going to go to the route, whatever the route, font size is, which
is in this case, the body.
It is 18 pixels.
So if you were to do like paragraph font size, it's going to be, you could say like one rim what's
18 pixels?
If you said to rim, that's what 36 pixels, so on and so forth.
It's how that works.
So you could do it that way.
For now, let's just hardcoded.
You do whatever way you want.
OK, let's head over to that paragraph tag, and we're going to say that color is black triple zero
font weight 400.
Let's style up our M emphasis color.
Let's go like this way to a to a two.
OK, now couple of things you can do here.
Just a little side CC sort of tutorial here.
If you don't want to just hard code everything that you don't have to CC is kind of cool because you
can add like six variables.
Now, I don't think they're called variables, but that's essentially what they are.
If you just type, you know, colon root, then you can actually establish kind of variables that you
can pull from.
So colors, font sizes, font styles.
It works to establish a variable, you say.
Dash, dash and then the name of the variable.
Now a convention would be something like this.
Let's say font dash sans.
And that would be like your sans font family.
And let's say enter.
And then we'll just go like Helvetica as a backup in the font stack and then sans serif.
OK, so now we can do any time we want to use our font sans family instead of writing it out.
Hardcoded, you go font family to call that variable.
You say VAR and in parentheses your dash dash font, dash sense.
So now if I save that essentially font family for body is whatever I put in here.
And if I change this, you know, like to something like a really high quality font, then we can we
can check it out.
It looks.
I don't even have this high quality font available to me, which is too bad, huh?
Look at that one.
You get the idea.
Let's put in your back and check it out.
If I were to inspect this, I should see that my body has the the bar font.
And you can actually click on the variable value here and you can see it.
And it says What shift?
Click.
To replace the variable with a value can actually change that just in the in the inspector.
But there we go.
And where is that style if you just click H.M.?
You can see in the root.
It's actually establishing that font variable right here.
Perfect.
OK, let's create another one.
Let's make this even more, let's say, font size.
And this will be our route.
Font size, let's say 18 pixels.
And now instead of font size, 18 pixels, here we're going this.
VAR dash, dash font size now.
There we go, we had our font size 18 and the body is going to have the font size of variable 18 pixels
if I change that.
It's like twenty eight.
Well, it affects everything else.
See how that works.
OK, let's say 1.5 is the line height, which is essentially multiplying the root font size by one point
five.
You could also specify one point five rim.
Like that, or if you just said one point five is going to be 1.5 of the font size?
Actually, yeah, 1.5 or 1.5 m, I believe these act the same.
It's the line.
It's going be 1.5 of what the local to that style.
So if you were to say like the paragraph, font size was like font size.
Let's say.
One REM.
That's 18 pixels.
You could also say, like zero point eight rim, then if we wanted the line height to be 1.5 of this,
it might already be established there.
But you can override it and say line height.
You can say one.
And and that's going to mean that it's going to go off of its local style, which is going to be the
point eight Rams, so point eight of 18 picks, though, so let's see if that math is right.
So obviously doesn't look good, but I'm just kind of showing you here, so the font size is zero point
eight rim, which is, you know, 80 percent of 18 pixels, and the line height is one m, which is
going to be the same as this.
So if that turns out to be like fourteen point four, then the line is four point fourteen point four.
You could see that just a little exercise there.
It's going to take one point five.
Let's keep going and then we'll add to our variables as we go.
Variables styles within EM font weight will make it a little heavier a link, skinny text decoration,
non and transition.
So this is for like when we do little animations.
Point three seconds 0.3 seconds.
A hover.
Or change the color and the color, or are you going to be using a two seven a six o or six zero rather?
And we could actually we're actually going to save that as a variable because we want to use that.
We're going to like this.
I'm going to say color green could be, you know, brand green brand, primary brand success, whatever
you want to call it, this.
So anytime you want to change that color globally, you can do that.
So now.
It works now interesting here.
Watch that, so right here, I just noticed something.
We have this right arrow that we use with H.M. Entity, but in the final it actually looks different.
And that's because the entire font, which is the entire font family were using.
If you just put the if you put a dash and a greater than sign, it actually just switches it to this
kind of nice line arrow.
So let's actually do that.
Go back to your HTML.
You can search and replace if you want RMR.
We use it a few times and just change it to dash greater than replace all save.
Now, if we go back here, you could see it changes that arrow to like the nicer kind of arrow.
That's because the entire font family does that render some headings?
And we're going to say the color for this is going to be after you, after you have to.
And that's going to be like a like a white, like an Off-White.
And we're going to change that into a variable shortly, actually.
But we'll see font size for the H one.
We are 18 pixels is the is the root, so I'll say 3.5 REM, which is going to be three point five the
size of the root font weight 800 margin bottom one REM and have it be rel- relative to the font size.
I like that transition zero point three s.
And you know, if we use this more than once, let's make it a variable.
Let's go like this.
Make a global transition time, transition duration that might be variable, so say just dir.
Yeah, transition dir.
Let's just do that and we'll see zero point three s and anytime we have that bar Ashutosh Transition
Dir.
Perfect.
Copy that piece it out.
Save it should still work.
Yup.
And there we go.
We've got to offer a blog that's going to change shortly.
Once we do that gradient, H2 is going to have the color of triple three.
It's like a dark gray font size 2.5 rim font weight 800 margin bottom is going to be on RAM and watch.
This transition is going to be Bar Dash Dash Transition dir.
And I just realized looking at my reference sheet, we don't actually have margin, bottom or transition
and H1.
I just got confused there.
So each one is simpler.
H2 has a couple of extra styles.
It's got two h three color is going to be triple three font size, it's going to be two ram font weight
800 and margin bottom, let's say zero point nine RAM.
Now you notice here that we use the font weight.
A couple of times, a few times, actually.
So let's do this H1, H2, H3, font weight 800.
And we'll take font weight out for each of these.
So don't declare it every single time.
Perfect.
And then we've got triple three.
Let's make that a variable color dark.
OK, and then color light after you have two, you have to save now whenever we use this.
Let's just make them variables.
So it's easier to change if we ever want to change it, or if you want to change it to your own special
styles.
Color light.
OK, and then this was going to be color dark.
Same here.
Under our age four, we're going to say font size is going to be one point two.
Rim font wakes me 700.
Save that.
Check it out.
That's looking better.
Looking more like we're going for this navigations.
A little bit gnarly.
Kind of want to clean that up?
Maybe the header, too.
So let's dig into the styles for the for the navigation.
I'm going to specify the top nav here in a comment.
Now we're going to do is we're going to say top navigation that's going to be position absolute width
100 percent.
And then we got mean dash menu, and inside of that, we have a class called navigation.
OK, in that we're actually going to say position static sense, what we're going to do here is turn
this whole thing into dropdowns session static margins zero.
Keep going.
We're going to say main dish menu and navigation child selector.
So only the fly the children ally of the navigation position relative or in a float at left margin right.
It's going to be 35 pixels padding.
We're going 35 pixels, zero 15 pixels.
Now, if you're wondering where I'm getting these values, it's because I already know them.
I also have a reference sheet because I can I can see the final result, but it's based off of the design.
So when I designed this and figma, I designed it in a way that, you know, when we coat it up, we
go off of, like, what space do we have?
You know what spaces that I add in between each article and what are the spacing between each list item?
So I'm getting those values from simply my design.
You know, and it's relative.
I'm not real strict.
I don't make my design.
I don't code exactly my design.
I kind of just design it roughly.
And then as we coat it, I kind of, you know, I'm a little bit more loose with with the with the values
that I use for spacing.
So if you want more spacing, less spacing, it's up to you.
That's what's nice about this is you could do whatever you want with it.
Now here we're going to say transition all these five hundred milliseconds.
That's because we're going to do a transition when we hover.
Now we've got to do the background stuff.
So I'm going to copy that in and not background fallbacks, Mars, Typekit, Microsoft and opera.
I believe browsers, that's the fallback for the browsers that don't do cool things and moving on.
Main menu.
Navigation l i.
A.
So all the links within the Ally Font Weight 600.
Copy this here just to speed up some coding.
So we got Eli Childs, Dr. Eli Colon, last child.
So that basically means like last child to the last Eli.
In this context?
Margin, right?
Zero.
All right.
Let's let's take a look at that and see what happens.
We're we're getting there.
We're getting there.
So the next on the stylesheet here is main menu navigation child selector Eli Hover and then child selector
a comma.
So this is a combination selector, main menu navigation ally with the class of current.
So it's a child selector class of current in the child selector, a very, very specific selector.
Opacity is one, and the color is going to be FDA.
Oh, FDA, oh sorry.
00, I keep saying oh for zero FDA, zero zero now that I think is like a pink or yellow, let's check
it out.
Yeah, it's yellow.
So that's like the current one, what we're going to do.
So when you when you hover over an element within that submenu, we want blog or whatever the dropdown
to hover as well.
So you see what you're in contextual styling.
Now I want to make that actual a global variable because we use that yellow throughout.
So let's go up here.
We're going to say color yellow and let's head back down and change that to a variable color yellow.
Next up, we have the main menu navigation allié, so there's a child selectors as well, and we're
going to position relative display block.
We're going to make the color white text align center the line height.
We're going to be specific and say 30.
We're going to text transform each link to capitalize.
So they capitalize the first letter with the letter spacing of zero.
We're going to make the opacity one overflow hidden the font weight 400, the font size.
We're going to be specific as well.
We could be using our variable.
But in this case, let's just make it 16.
And then we're going to transition any of the animations to all five hundred milliseconds with the ease.
This one's different than zero point three seconds.
We're just going to say five hundred milliseconds for this animation, for our drop down, you know,
submenus.
Then what we're going to do is we're going to do a combination selector here.
Main menu navigation child selector ally.
When you hover on it, child selector, a pseudo element after and not width is going to be 22 pixels.
Now this is what it's looking like so far.
When you hover, it goes from white to the yellow in a nice, nice little transition animation.
And we've got our dropdown here, which isn't doing anything yet, but we'll get to it.
But what's bugging me now is everything's white here.
It's hard to see see this text.
So we're just going to kind of skip forward a bit and we'll keep going with the main menu and our next
video.
But let's just do the background there so that we can see, you know, our section are, you know,
so we can see the main menu as we style it and then wrap this video up.
So just for now, we're going to say more nav styles to come.
And for now, let's just move on to like that title.
Banner section, make it look a little bit nicer and have the class of Title Dash banner and we're going
to make the padding 120 pixels and zero.
So top and bottom is 120.
Left and right is zero.
And now we're going to do a background.
The linear gradient of I mean, this is really specific one to one point two degrees.
That's just the the value I got from Figma.
You could just say 100 degrees if you really want doesn't have to be that specific.
And then EF five zero zero five seven at zero percent all the way to B-BBEE six b d nine to 100 percent
on a 100 degree angle.
We'll do one more thing here tidal banner subtitle selector and the color is going to be.
F to C nine, four C, and that's it for the title banner.
Let's see how that makes it look at so a lot nicer, as you can see there.
You could play with the the gradient angle if you want, as well as this one hundred degrees, you change
it to 120.
See the gradient slightly changes angles.
It's kind of hard to see there, but you get the idea.
We did the nav with some basic styling here did a lot of work to kind of get a little bit further.
But in our next video, we're going to keep going with this menu to make it look a lot better and make
it work.
All right.
See there.